Ory Oathkeeper design implementation details added (#10)
mojaloop/business-operations-framework-docs: docs/guide/SecurityBC.md

"allowed": true/false
}
```

## Ory Oathkeeper – implementation detail

> *(Configuring Oathkeeper for BizOps)*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Configuring Oathkeeper for BizOps

```

[ORY Oathkeeper](https://www.ory.sh/oathkeeper/docs/next/) authorizes incoming HTTP requests. It can be the Policy Enforcement Point in your cloud architecture, i.e. a reverse proxy in front of your upstream API or web server that rejects unauthorized requests and forwards authorized ones to your server. If you want to use another API Gateway (Kong, Nginx, Envoy, AWS API Gateway, ...), Oathkeeper can also plug into that and act as its Policy Decision Point.

The Oathkeeper helm chart is described at [ORY Oathkeeper Helm Chart | k8s](https://k8s.ory.sh/helm/oathkeeper.html) and defined in [k8s/helm/charts/oathkeeper at master · ory/k8s · GitHub](https://github.com/ory/k8s/tree/master/helm/charts/oathkeeper) The Ory helm repository is documented at [ORY Helm Charts | k8s](https://k8s.ory.sh/helm/). The Oathkeeper configuration reference is at [Configuration | ORY Oathkeeper](https://www.ory.sh/oathkeeper/docs/reference/configuration) but note that the Helm chart values has different ways of doing certain things. Also, every configuration value can be overridden with environment variables. 

> The Oathkeeper helm chart deploys two key components into Kubernetes: Oathkeeper itself, and the Oathkeeper Maester. Oathkeeper is stateless and config-driven, and seamlessly reloads itself with zero downtime anytime that config changes. Oathkeeper Maester is a controller for the Rule CRD, and composes the Rule objects in Kubernetes into a single complete rules file that is loaded by Oathkeeper.  By default, that’s a ConfigMap that Oathkeeper mounts, but it can also be set to run as a sidecar and use a shared mount.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Oathkeeper Helm chart deploys two key components into Kubernetes: Oathkeeper itself, and the Oathkeeper Maester. Oathkeeper is stateless and config-driven, and seamlessly reloads itself with zero downtime, anytime that config changes. Oathkeeper Maester is a controller for the Rule CRD, and composes the Rule objects in Kubernetes into a single complete rules file that is loaded by Oathkeeper.  By default, that is a ConfigMap that Oathkeeper mounts, but it can also be set to run as a sidecar and use a shared mount.

```

Oathkeeper will be configured to generate and sign a JWT containing claims that internal services can check and verify by pointing at the JWKS that Oathkeeper will publish (which is part of the configuration) at the well-known URL for JWKS on the API service (see [REST API | ORY Oathkeeper](https://www.ory.sh/oathkeeper/docs/reference/api/#lists-cryptographic-keys) ). If a service does this, then it is operating under a basic zero trust regime, as it will not be possible to call that service except with a token that has been generated by Oathkeeper, and Oathkeeper will only generate a token if the access rules for the given URL allow access.

### Debugging

> The responses and logs from Oathkeeper tend to be pretty informative, definitely start there. Make sure you’re looking at the logs for the request that matters. Oathkeeper will also be logging health checks and similar. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The responses and logs from Oathkeeper tend to be pretty informative, so start there. Make sure you are looking at the logs for the request that matters. Oathkeeper will also be logging health checks and similar. 

```

Some possible debugging actions that I’ve found useful in different circumstances:

* make a match much, much more permissive (replacing the entire beginning with `<.*>` and then having the minimum currently unique suffix is good)

> * double check that each internal URL is the proper internal URL by checking it is accessible inside the cluster with curl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Double-check that each internal URL is the proper internal URL by checking it is accessible inside the cluster with curl.

```

* look at the IdP logs
* make sure the domains and ports for the introspection and the external token endpoint are identical. Keycloak at least doesn’t like it if they are not

> * point the Oathkeeper rule at https://httpbin.org/ , usually the `/anything` path prefix which will reflect back everything it gets, making it easy to see what the service will see

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Point the Oathkeeper rule at https://httpbin.org/, usually the `/anything` path prefix which will reflect back everything it gets, making it easy to see what the service will see.

```
I feel that something is off with this sentence. Shall we remove the "which" from "usually the `/anything` path prefix which will reflect back"?

> ### In Addition to Helm Chart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Components required in addition to a Helm chart

```

The following piece will be needed in addition to the helm chart.

> #### JWKS Secret

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### JWKS secret

```

> A secret should be created with key `mutator.id_token.jwks.json` and value of a JWKS suitable for use with Oathkeeper. An initial one can be generated as described at [Configure and Deploy | ORY Oathkeeper](https://www.ory.sh/oathkeeper/docs/configure-deploy#cryptographic-keys). It will contain both public and private keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A secret should be created with key `mutator.id_token.jwks.json` and the value of a JWKS suitable for use with Oathkeeper. An initial one can be generated as described in [Configure and Deploy | ORY Oathkeeper](https://www.ory.sh/oathkeeper/docs/configure-deploy#cryptographic-keys). It will contain both public and private keys.

```

          issuer_url: http://whatever-oathkeeper-internal-is-api:4456/
    errors:
      fallback:
        - json
      handlers:
        json:
        # this gives API clients pretty error JSON
        enabled: true
        config:
          verbose: true
          redirect:
        enabled: true
        config:
          # set this to whatever the main URL is, it'll ensure that browser errors redirect there
          to: https://whatever-external-main-url-is/
          when:
          - error:
            - unauthorized
            - forbidden
            request: 
            header:
              accept:
              - text/html
secret:
  # without this we would need to put the JWKS in the config, which would mean we couldn't rotate it just by changing the secret
  manage: false
  # change to whatever is used for secret name
  name: oathkeeper-jwks
deployment:
  extraEnv:
    # for whatever reason this environment variable only gets set if the JWKS is in the config even though the rest of the secret mounting
    # and such still happens
    - name: MUTATORS_ID_TOKEN_CONFIG_JWKS_URL
    value: file:///etc/secrets/mutator.id_token.jwks.json

```

### Rules

> Rule resources will need to be created in k8s along the lines of the following, for each backend “match” (URL regex plus HTTP method(s)) protected with a permission.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rule resources will need to be created in Kubernetes for each backend "match" (URL regex plus HTTP method(s)) protected with a permission. The example provided below provides guidance.

```
What does "the following" refer to? The example with the comments?

    # my recommendation is to have a given prefix, then the "everything else in the domain name" matcher
    # so it doesn't need to be changed when the config is moved between various main domains
    # then whatever is needed for the specific path (this is set to match all subpaths)
    # regexes go in between angle brackets
    url: https://example.<[^/]*>/<.*>
    methods:
    # whatever method(s) this rule applies to
    - GET
  authenticators:
    - handler: oauth2_introspection
    # comment out this second one to not allow browser-cookie access
    - handler: cookie_session
  authorizer:
    handler: remote_json
    # these will generally be identical for all rules,
    # except "object" will be changed to the permission ID that is relevant for
    # this URL
    payload: |
    {
      "namespace": "permission",
      "object": "PERMISSION IDENTIFIER HERE",
      "relation": "granted",
      "subject_id": "{{ print .Subject }}"
    }
  mutators:
    # change this to an empty array if the id_token isn't needed, if you want
    - handler: id_token

```
### Configure Oathkeeper to use Kratos as it's cookie Authenticator

> [docs here](https://www.ory.sh/oathkeeper/docs/next/pipeline/authn)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For details on ORY Oathkeeper authenticators, see the [documentation here](https://www.ory.sh/oathkeeper/docs/next/pipeline/authn).

```

### Configure Oathkeeper to use WSO2 ISKM for token introspection
Check that a token is valid

> [docs here](https://www.ory.sh/oathkeeper/docs/next/pipeline/authn)

Reviewer: Please can you make this reference a little bit more informative? What details will users find in the referenced doc that helps them with token introspection?

Author: I have added to these descriptions

### Configure Oathkeeper to use Keto as its authoriser.

> [Docs here](https://www.ory.sh/oathkeeper/docs/next/pipeline/authz)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For details on Ory Oathkeeper authorizers, see the [documentation here](https://www.ory.sh/oathkeeper/docs/next/pipeline/authz).

```

To rotate the secret, apply the following procedure:

0. Note the time.
1. Add a public and private key pair to the beginning of the array in the JWKS (make sure all public JWKs have a specified unique `kid`) in the secret. All keys other than the new keys and the previous first public and private keys can be removed. This is because Oathkeeper always signs with the first key.
2. Wait until all requests that Oathkeeper might have received and authorized would have had their JWT handled by the backend service. The main delay here is the time for the secret update to propagate, comprising the delay of the secret manager to the updated secret and the delay of the secret to the updated volume, which is probably at most a minute or two, so wait that long after the time in step 0.
3. If the old secret is being removed (this is only necessary if a breach is suspected, otherwise step 1 is sufficient for periodic key rotation), remove it now.

#### Annotated Helm values

Several places will need to be changed to the rest-of-deployment-specific URLs or other values. Those places are described in the comments in the example below, as well as other commentary.

> How to setup the Proxy ingress is undecided at the time, as it will need to change when the solution is added to the IaC 3.xxx so that area of the config is still unspecified. This leaves the ingress out by default. Changing `ingress.proxy.enabled` to `true` will enable the proxy ingress. See the linked pages at the beginning for options  available for the built-in ingress configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How to setup the Proxy ingress is undecided at the time, as it will need to change when the solution is added to the IaC 3.xxx so that area of the config is still unspecified. This leaves the ingress out by default. Changing `ingress.proxy.enabled` to `true` will enable the proxy ingress. See the linked pages at the beginning for options available for the built-in ingress configuration.

```
Apart from the above minor edit, it's all good now.

    # my recommendation is to have a given prefix, then the "everything else in the domain name" matcher
    # so it doesn't need to be changed when the config is moved between various main domains
    # then whatever is needed for the specific path (this is set to match all subpaths)
    # regexes go in between angle brackets
    url: https://example.<[^/]*>/<.*>
    methods:
    # whatever method(s) this rule applies to
    - GET
  authenticators:
    - handler: oauth2_introspection
    # comment out this second one to not allow browser-cookie access
    - handler: cookie_session
  authorizer:
    handler: remote_json
    # these will generally be identical for all rules,
    # except "object" will be changed to the permission ID that is relevant for
    # this URL
    payload: |
    {
      "namespace": "permission",
      "object": "PERMISSION IDENTIFIER HERE",
      "relation": "granted",
      "subject_id": "{{ print .Subject }}"
    }
  mutators:
    # change this to an empty array if the id_token isn't needed, if you want
    - handler: id_token

```
### Configure Oathkeeper to use Kratos as its cookie Authenticator

> This part of the config above is applicable. Reference documentation for [Ory Oathkeeper authenticators](https://www.ory.sh/oathkeeper/docs/next/pipeline/authn).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This part of the config above is applicable. Reference documentation for Ory Oathkeeper authenticators is found [here](https://www.ory.sh/oathkeeper/docs/next/pipeline/authn).

```

          extra_from: "@this"
          # kratos will be configured to put the subject from the IdP here
          subject_from: "identity.id"
          only:
          - ory_kratos_session

```

### Configure Oathkeeper to use WSO2 ISKM for token introspection
This part of the config above is applicable.
[Reference documentation here](https://www.ory.sh/oathkeeper/docs/next/pipeline/authn)
```yaml
      oauth2_introspection:
        enabled: true
        config:
          introspection_url: https://whatever/the/wso2/url/is/oauth2/introspect
          introspection_request_headers:
          # see https://is.docs.wso2.com/en/latest/learn/invoke-the-oauth-introspection-endpoint/ for what credentials
          # will need to be configured here
          # also, this does not seem to be settable via environment variable, which means it is 
          authorization: "Basic SOME WORKING AUTH HERE"
          cache:
            # disabled to make debugging easier. enable for caching.
            enabled: false
            ttl: "60s"
```

### Configure Oathkeeper to use Keto as its authorizer
This part of the config above is applicable.

> Reference documentation [Ory Oathkeeper authorizers.](https://www.ory.sh/oathkeeper/docs/next/pipeline/authz).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reference documentation about Ory Oathkeeper authorizers is found [here](https://www.ory.sh/oathkeeper/docs/next/pipeline/authz).

```
